All right.
So this is what we have here we have a gouges law problem.
Number one we've got a conducting sphere inside which has a radius of zero point zero five meters.
What else is placed inside a shell over here which has an inner radius which is given by that and an
outer radius which is this.
OK.
We're asked now to look at the field at different regions.
Now this inner sphere has a charge of careful here the negative sign is up here both negatively CHARGE
AND NEGATIVE for nano cooling.
So I'm gonna call this Q inner Q In is minus four times 10 to the negative nine columns and on the outer
shell what I have here is positive charge here of three.
OK.
So this is Q Out is three times 10 to the negative nine columns.
OK so we want to find a feel that the various positions over here.
So let me do Part A right here.
Let's figure out where is this.
Oh this so they tell you it's in the air space between them.
So if I was gonna draw a ocean surface it kind of look like something like this.
All right.
And the radius here.
Let's just call it a radius r which is I mean it's gonna give it a subscript a.
All right.
So you apply GAUSS LAW to this problem.
It's pretty straightforward says that the field multiplied by the area of this Goshen surface the area
of a sphere is for pi.
This will be a squared.
And that has to be equal to how much charge is enclosed by this.
Well it's the total charge q in right.
It's simply Q in divided by epsilon 0.
All right.
So if I kind of write the math a little bit differently I'm gonna have one over for Pi Epsilon 0.
And this is going to be Q in and divided by our A squared and that's multiplied.
This guy here everything here in the bracket is typically what we call the constant k so you can write
this as k q in divided by our A squared.
So this looks like the field of a point charge rates as though all of the charge of this inner sphere
is localized right at the center.
So at the end we just substitute the values nine times ten of the nine K value the charge on the Inner
Sphere again I'm just going to write the magnitude is for nano Coolum and now I have to divide by the
right distance the radius is zero point zero five meters eight five meters sorry.
Square put that in the calculator at the end you should get something which is just under 5000.
That's in Newton's preschool home.
OK.
So that's part a part B now have a look where B is the radius is is this however it's inside the metal
shell.
So if you were going to draw that one it would kind of look something like this the radius the ocean
surface would look something like this so this is kind of a trick question if you're inside the metal.
The definition.
This means you're inside a conductor.
And guess what.
The field inside the conductor is always zero.
All right.
So that one's easy.
You don't have anything to do.
And how about the last one C C says outside of the spherical shell.
So if you're going to do outside the spherical shell this is kind of what the ocean's surface would
look like.
So the bigger it's going to have a radius which I'm going to call our subscript C..
Put a little C over here or if you apply Gauss as law to this problem is going to look.
The left hand side is going to look very very similar to the Part A except we have a different radius
r c squared.
And now what do we have instead of the.
Just the charge of the inner.
We really need to know what is the total charging closed and divided by epsilon 0.
OK.
So the only thing that's kind of a little bit tricky.
Let me just rewrite this again it's always gonna be one over for pipes along zero I'm just gonna write
that as K this here becomes Q total divided by our c squared.
So I want you to think about what is the Q total over here.
It's the total charge inside the surface so there's two things.
Q total is going to be Q inside plus the charge on the outside shell.
Okay so I mean kind of write that special right here.
So the total charge is Q In plus Q on the outer shell.
So Q In is negative for nano coolant.
Q Out is three.
So the total charge is minus it's going to be negative.
Right.
And one nano Coolum
all right.
So that's it.
So that's kind of the tricky part over here.
So at the end the field if and if I'm just worried about the magnitude I'm not going to put in the negative
sign here.
But the magnitude of the total charge is 1 nano cool.
So we're gonna have nine times 10 to the 9.
This year is going to be one times ten to the negative nine and divided by now the bigger radius because
my I'm outside and it's zero point two five squared.
Okay I'll put that in the calculator and you should get approximately one hundred and forty four newtons
per kilo get kind of a nice application of Gauss law to different radii.